preaching to the choir
preaching to the converted
converting the masses
father
mother
paternal uncle
maternal aunt
paternal aunt
maternal unclel
grandfather
grandmother
sister
brother
young brother
young sister
older brother
older sister



To set a deadline for Rwanda to become financially self-reliant. 
In view of Vision 2050, focus needs to be on continuing to work hard for our own development, remain accountable,
and ensure efficient sectoral coordination.  
To continue to strengthen Rwanda’s uniqueness based on principles of good governance, 
choosing and supporting a visionary leadership,
and embracing and branding our home-grown solutions, while ensuring they are transferred from one generation to the next.
To build closer partnerships between the Public Sector, Parents, Teachers, Private Sector, NGOs, Civil Society and Faith-Based Organisations in order to strengthen Rwandan families.
To put in place strategies to add value to “Made in Rwanda” products and facilitate their penetration into domestic and foreign markets.
To improve customer service in Public and Private Sector entities, 
encourage clients/beneficiaries to refuse and/or report on poor service to ensure that corrective measures are taken;
To establish and support Youth Connect Initiative in all the Districts across the country and extend National Itorero Program to all categories of Rwandans including the elderly living abroad and People Living with Disabilities.
To develop well designed large irrigation projects, especially in the districts of Nyagatare, Gatsibo, Kayonza and Kirehe.
To devise mechanism to ensure that polling stations are easily accessible to Rwandans living abroad.
To preserve and protect unity of Rwandans fighting against genocide ideology, especially among youth.
To step up efforts to fight activities taking place in foreign countries aimed at negationism and other forms of denial of the 1994 Genocide against Tutsi. 
To conduct research with the aim to deeply understand all issues and consequences pertaining to trauma among Genocide survivors in order to address them.
To find out appropriate measures to address hindrances interfering with the final execution of remaining Gacaca Court judgments on properties damaged during the 1994 Genocide against Tutsi.

Rwanda, our beautiful and dear country
Adorned of hills, lakes and volcanoes
Motherland, would be always filled of happiness
Us all your children: Abanyarwanda
Let us sing your glare and proclaim your high facts
You, maternal bosom of us all
Would be admired forever, prosperous and cover of praises
Invaluable heritage, that God protects to you
You filled us priceless goods
Our common culture identifies us
Our single language unifies us
That our intelligence, our conscience and our forces
Fill you with varied riches
For an unceasingly renewed development
Our valorous ancestors
Gave themselves bodies and souls
As far as making you a big nation
You overcame the colonial-imperialistic yoke
That has devastated Africa entirely
And has your joy of your sovereign independence
Acquired that constantly we will defend.
Maintain this cape, beloved Rwanda,
Standing, we commit for you
So that peace reigns countrywide
That you are free of all hindrance
That your determination hires progress
That you have excellent relations with all countries
And that finally your pride is worth your esteem